Geordi data lifecycle
=====================

* Insertion to geordi. In general this should happen via a dedicated HTTP endpoint within geordi accessible only from an unproxied connection from localhost. This replaces submit-dir.py from former versions of geordi; that is, the endpoint will take a data source name, an item type, and an ID, plus a file (and filename, for insertion's sake) of any supported type, and it will convert it if necessary and insert it into the data item. If this results in a new data item this process will also create an item; finally, it should trigger an update of the map and of the item-item links associated with the item. Item-item links can depend on things not yet imported, but in most cases it should be possible to create an empty item other than a data item link to a not-yet-extant data item. Whenever in-DB info is updated it should be propagated to elasticsearch in the _geordi key.
* Matching. For data sources that use raw matches, this is straightforward: users submit matches, and when they do the match information for all connected data items should be updated in elasticsearch. For data sources that use MusicBrainz matches, it's (as usual) more complicated: triggers on appropriate tables update a materialized table of matches. Updates to this match table also mark items to be updated in elasticsearch.
* Importing to MB. Maps can of course be turned into release editor seed format, by way of a page to select which among a set of options to include, as the current geordi importer.
* Importing to MB *from* MB. MB should be amended to be able to include results from geordi in a reworked "release starting points" type screen which makes available the existing freedb/cdstub/existing release functionality as well. Such an interface should come before anything else in the release editor and take into account everything -- e.g., release group and artist starting points, and any user-provided information, as well as providing a search field to use. Ideally it would also, similar to the inline search, support pasting a URL, but support external sources like discogs (which would likely be in geordi) as well.
* Matching between items. Provided two items, an interface is shown to specify what their connection is. Each item is put in its own column, and links can be added below the item on the left and above the item on the right until their meeting point is the shared type of item.
* Splitting items. If two items were merged erroneously, they can be split; contained data items, editable links, and matches can each be assigned to one or both sides (but everything must be assigned to at least one side of the result).
* Data updates. Should only require a re-push to the same endpoint as initial insertion.
